First shot writing C from scratch. It's been at least 9 years since last writing so being able to learn a little bit of syntax (including finding out that C has ternaries and single-line if's) was good. I wrote my 1a attempt and it took me about 4 iterations to get the right answer. Once I did, I prompted Claude to do 1a as well so I could see how it did the problem. The main difference was it using fscanf, which seems much safer given the possible variability in inputs. This in addition to the file opening safety (null-checking) that I didn't do makes the program more robust. I did have a performance advantage with my index-based string processing but it relied on spotless input and knowing the max length of the string.

For 1b I took some notes from Claude's 1a attempt, cleaning up some syntax (utilizing some of the newer C features and reading in with fscanf) while trying to write a bespoke algorithm. At first I made a pretty big mistake by failing to initialize my zeroCount variable with 0, instead I just declared the integer so it defaulted at 1.8*10^something, so my calculations were extremely high. The next couple mistakes I made were simple logical errors (using modulo when I meant to divide an int and not accounting for the starting-at-zero edge case). But once I figured those out the algorithm ended up working. Claude wrote a different method for the algorithm and ended up doing a lot more calculation. I had it draw up bench.c for me so I could compare and mine ended up about 2.6x faster on average, which is a big W.

Claude pretty obviously dominated in time taken to write the code, it probably has some advantage in being trained on open-source Advent of Code data and lots of other C code, so coming in fresh on both made my attempt take a while. Despite a few logical bugs, once acctually finishing my algorithms, I am pleased with the efficiency and especially the readability compared to Claude. Having done AoCs before I was surprised at how much more difficult 1b was. I've usually found the complexity really doesn't rise until around day 6 or 7.

Onto day 2.
-Austin
